15485686|t|A novel SCN5A mutation manifests as a malignant form of long QT syndrome with perinatal onset of tachycardia/bradycardia.
15485686|a|OBJECTIVE: Congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) with in utero onset of the rhythm disturbances is associated with a poor prognosis. In this study we investigated a newborn patient with fetal bradycardia, 2:1 atrioventricular block and ventricular tachycardia soon after birth. METHODS: Mutational analysis and DNA sequencing were conducted in a newborn. The 2:1 atrioventricular block improved to 1:1 conduction only after intravenous lidocaine infusion or a high dose of mexiletine, which also controlled the ventricular tachycardia. RESULTS: A novel, spontaneous LQTS-3 mutation was identified in the transmembrane segment 6 of domain IV of the Na(v)1.5 cardiac sodium channel, with a G-->A substitution at codon 1763, which changed a valine (GTG) to a methionine (ATG). The proband was heterozygous but the mutation was absent in the parents and the sister. Expression of this mutant channel in tsA201 mammalian cells by site-directed mutagenesis revealed a persistent tetrodotoxin-sensitive but lidocaine-resistant current that was associated with a positive shift of the steady-state inactivation curve, steeper activation curve and faster recovery from inactivation. We also found a similar electrophysiological profile for the neighboring V1764M mutant. But, the other neighboring I1762A mutant had no persistent current and was still associated with a positive shift of inactivation. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the Na(v)1.5/V1763M channel dysfunction and possible neighboring mutants contribute to a persistent inward current due to altered inactivation kinetics and clinically congenital LQTS with perinatal onset of arrhythmias that responded to lidocaine and mexiletine.

16046395|t|Allelic expression imbalance of human mu opioid receptor (OPRM1) caused by variant A118G.
16046395|a|As a primary target for opioid drugs and peptides, the mu opioid receptor (OPRM1) plays a key role in pain perception and addiction. Genetic variants of OPRM1 have been implicated in predisposition to drug addiction, in particular the single nucleotide polymorphism A118G, leading to an N40D substitution, with an allele frequency of 10-32%, and uncertain functions. We have measured allele-specific mRNA expression of OPRM1 in human autopsy brain tissues, using A118G as a marker. In 8 heterozygous samples measured, the A118 mRNA allele was 1.5-2.5-fold more abundant than the G118 allele. Transfection into Chinese hamster ovary cells of a cDNA representing only the coding region of OPRM1, carrying adenosine, guanosine, cytidine, and thymidine in position 118, resulted in 1.5-fold lower mRNA levels only for OPRM1-G118, and more than 10-fold lower OPRM1 protein levels, measured by Western blotting and receptor binding assay. After transfection and inhibition of transcription with actinomycin D, analysis of mRNA turnover failed to reveal differences in mRNA stability between A118 and G118 alleles, indicating a defect in transcription or mRNA maturation. These results indicate that OPRM1-G118 is a functional variant with deleterious effects on both mRNA and protein yield. Clarifying the functional relevance of polymorphisms associated with susceptibility to a complex disorder such as drug addiction provides a foundation for clinical association studies.

1848636|t|Debrisoquine phenotype and the pharmacokinetics and beta-2 receptor pharmacodynamics of metoprolol and its enantiomers.
1848636|a|The metabolism of the cardioselective beta-blocker metoprolol is under genetic control of the debrisoquine/sparteine type. The two metabolic phenotypes, extensive (EM) and poor metabolizers (PM), show different stereoselective metabolism, resulting in apparently higher beta-1 adrenoceptor antagonistic potency of racemic metoprolol in EMs. We investigated if the latter also applies to the beta-2 adrenoceptor antagonism by metoprolol. The drug effect studied was the antagonism by metoprolol of terbutaline-induced hypokalemia. By using pharmacokinetic pharmacodynamic modeling the pharmacodynamics of racemic metoprolol and the active S-isomer, were quantitated in EMs and PMs in terms of IC50 values, representing metoprolol plasma concentrations resulting in half-maximum receptor occupancy. Six EMs received 0.5 mg of terbutaline s.c. on two different occasions: 1) 1 hr after administration of a placebo and 2) 1 hr after 150 mg of metoprolol p.o. Five PMs were studied according to the same protocol, except for a higher terbutaline dose (0.75 mg) on day 2. Blood samples for the analysis of plasma potassium, terbutaline, metoprolol (racemic, R- and S-isomer), and alpha-hydroxymetoprolol concentrations were taken at regular time intervals, during 8 hr after metoprolol. In PMs, metoprolol increased the terbutaline area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve (+67%). Higher metoprolol/alpha-hydroxymetoprolol ratios in PMs were predictive for higher R-/S-isomer ratios of unchanged drug. There was a difference in metoprolol potency with higher racemic metoprolol IC50 values in PMs (72 +/- 7 ng.ml-1) than EMs (42 +/- 8 ng.ml-1, P less than .001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

19394258|t|The first founder DGUOK mutation associated with hepatocerebral mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome.
19394258|a|Deoxyguanosine kinase (dGK) deficiency is a frequent cause of mitochondrial DNA depletion associated with a hepatocerebral phenotype. In this study, we describe a new splice site mutation in the DGUOK gene and the clinical, radiologic, and genetic features of these DGUOK patients. This new DGUOK homozygous mutation (c.444-62C>A) was identified in three patients from two North-African consanguineous families with combined respiratory chain deficiencies and mitochondrial DNA depletion in the liver. Brain MRIs are normal in DGUOK patients in the literature. Interestingly, we found subtentorial abnormal myelination and moderate hyperintensity in the bilateral pallidi in our patients. This new mutation creates a cryptic splice site in intron 3 (in position -62) and is predicted to result in a larger protein with an in-frame insertion of 20 amino acids. In silico analysis of the putative impact of the insertion shows serious clashes in protein conformation: this insertion disrupts the alpha5 helix of the dGK kinase domain, rendering the protein unable to bind purine deoxyribonucleosides. In addition, a common haplotype that segregated with the disease in both families was detected by haplotype reconstruction with 10 markers (microsatellites and SNPs), which span 4.6 Mb of DNA covering the DGUOK locus. In conclusion, we report a new DGUOK splice site mutation that provide insight into a critical protein domain (dGK kinase domain) and the first founder mutation in a North-African population.
